README.md, before:

# JMinor [![Tweet](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=JMinor%20reduces%20your%20payload%20size%20and%20saves%20you%20bandwidth&url=https://github.com/uditalias/jminor&via=uditalias&hashtags=javascript,JSON,minify,developers,webdeveloper)

### ✂️ A configurable Two-Way JSON minifier to reduce your payload size.

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/uditalias/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/uditalias/jminor)
[![Npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jminor)
[![npm bundle size (minified)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.min.js)
[![npm bundle size (minified + gzip](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.min.js)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/uditalias/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uditalias/jminor/blob/master/LICENSE)

## What is it good for?

When passing data back and forth between servers and clients its always a good idea to reduce your payload size to the minimum, that will save you money and time for your users.

JMinor will help you achive this task by reducing the size of your payload with a generated payload translation dictionary.

#### Turn (~136 Bytes):
```json
{
    "my_very_long_key": 1,
    "deep_object": {
        "a_falsy_value": false,
        "filled_array": [1, 2, 3],
        "empty_array": [],
        "another_array": [{
            "some_number": 0
        }]
    }
}
```

#### Into (~25 Bytes):
```json
{
    "a": 1,
    "b": {
        "d": [1, 2, 3]
    }
}
```

#### And then back into (~61 Bytes):
```json
{
    "my_very_long_key": 1,
    "deep_object": {
        "filled_array": [1, 2, 3]
    }
}
```

## Install
Install via npm with
```sh
$ npm install --save jminor
```

Or use the CDN:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.js"></script>
```
Or the minified version:
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.min.js"></script>
```

> You can use JMinor both in the Client and the Server (or any other ECMAScript runtime).


## Usage

<details>
<summary><b>Dictionary</b></summary>

The first thing to do is to create a Dictionary. The dictionary will hold all the original payload keys mapped to their translations.

```javascript
import { createDictionary } from "jminor";

const dictionary = createDictionary();
```

`createDictionary()` is a factory function that receive a key generator factory.  
A key generator is a module that generates dictionary keys.

**`createDictionary(keyGeneratorFactory)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| keyGeneratorFactory | [`() => IKeyGenerator`](src/generators/IKeyGenerator.ts) | false | [`createDefaultKeyGenerator`](src/generators/defaultKeyGenerator.ts) | [See below]() |

#### Dictionary API

**`dictionary.replaceKeyGenerator(keyGenerator)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| keyGenerator | [`IKeyGenerator`](src/generators/IKeyGenerator.ts) | true | - | - |

- replaces the current key generator.  
***Note!*** that this will reset the dictionary.

**`dictionary.fromJSON(data)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| data | JSON | true | - | - |

- This method will digest the json object passed to it, and generates a uniqe key for each property for later translation

**`dictionary.extendWith(data)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| data | JSON | true | - | - |

- After dictionary is craeted and generated, you can pass another object to extend the dictionary that was created with the `fromJSON` method.

**`dictionary.export()`**

- Returns the generated dictionary as a raw object.

**`dictionary.import(rawDictionary)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| rawDictionary | JSON | true | - | exported raw dictionary |

- If you have exported dictionary received from the `export` method, you can import it.

**`dictionary.ktoc(key)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| key | String | true | - | - |

- Translates original key to generated key, if it exist in the dictionary.

**`dictionary.ctok(ckey)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| ckey | String | true | - | - |

- Translates generated key to original key, if it exist in the dictionary.
</details>


<details>
<summary><b>Compress</b></summary>

After we have our dictionary with the generated keys, we can go and compress some data.

```javascript
import { compress } from "jminor";

const compressed = compress(data, dictionary, config);
```

**`compress(data, dictionary, config)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| data | JSON | true | - | A JSON with keys that presented in the dictionary |
| dictionary | Dictionary | true | - | - |
| config | [`ICompressConfig`](src/minifier/ICompressConfig.ts) | false | See below | - |

#### Config and defaults
```javascript
{
    // Translate object keys
    // Default: true
    translateKeys: true,

    null: {

        // Remove null values (null)
        // Default: false
        removeNull: false,

        // If removeNull is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    boolean: {

        // Remove false values (false)
        // Default: false
        removeFalse: false,

        // If removeFalse is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    string: {

        // Remove empty strings ("")
        // Default: false
        removeEmpty: false,

        // If removeEmpty is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    number: {

        // Remove zero values (0)
        // Default: false
        removeZero: false,

        // If removeZero is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    object: {

        // Remove empty objects ({})
        // Default: false
        removeEmpty: false,

        // If removeEmpty is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    array: {

        // Remove empty arrays ([])
        // Default: false
        removeEmpty: false,

        // If removeEmpty is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    }
}
```

***Note!*** All config keys are optionals
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Decompress</b></summary>

After compressing some data we can decompres it.  
***Note!*** that some data may be truncated based on your compress config.

```javascript
import { decompress } from "jminor";

const data = decompress(compressed, dictionary);
```

**`decompress(compressed, dictionary)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| compressed | JSON | true | - | A JSON with keys that presented in the dictionary |
| dictionary | Dictionary | true | - | - |
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Generators</b></summary>

### JMinor comes with two built in key generators:
- `DefaultKeyGenerator` - generates keys in the form of `aaa`, `aab`, `zxc` etc.  

- `NumericKeyGenerator` - generates keys in the form of a numeric ascending series.

You can create your own key generator, if you will, you should implement the [`IKeyGenerator`](src/generators/IKeyGenerator.ts) interface.

See the `generators/` folder for source example
</details>

## Examples

Check out `example/` folder for usage examples

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

feat(module): add "open an issue" info

README.md, after:

# JMinor [![Tweet](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=JMinor%20reduces%20your%20payload%20size%20and%20saves%20you%20bandwidth&url=https://github.com/uditalias/jminor&via=uditalias&hashtags=javascript,JSON,minify,developers,webdeveloper)

### ✂️ A configurable Two-Way JSON minifier to reduce your payload size.

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/uditalias/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/uditalias/jminor)
[![Npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jminor)
[![npm bundle size (minified)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.min.js)
[![npm bundle size (minified + gzip](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.min.js)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/uditalias/jminor.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/uditalias/jminor/blob/master/LICENSE)

## What is it good for?

When passing data back and forth between servers and clients its always a good idea to reduce your payload size to the minimum, that will save you money and time for your users.

JMinor will help you achive this task by reducing the size of your payload with a generated payload translation dictionary.

#### Turn (~136 Bytes):
```json
{
    "my_very_long_key": 1,
    "deep_object": {
        "a_falsy_value": false,
        "filled_array": [1, 2, 3],
        "empty_array": [],
        "another_array": [{
            "some_number": 0
        }]
    }
}
```

#### Into (~25 Bytes):
```json
{
    "a": 1,
    "b": {
        "d": [1, 2, 3]
    }
}
```

#### And then back into (~61 Bytes):
```json
{
    "my_very_long_key": 1,
    "deep_object": {
        "filled_array": [1, 2, 3]
    }
}
```

## Install
Install via npm with
```sh
$ npm install --save jminor
```

Or use the CDN:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.js"></script>
```
Or the minified version:
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/jminor/umd/jminor.min.js"></script>
```

> You can use JMinor both in the Client and the Server (or any other ECMAScript runtime).


## Usage

<details>
<summary><b>Dictionary</b></summary>

The first thing to do is to create a Dictionary. The dictionary will hold all the original payload keys mapped to their translations.

```javascript
import { createDictionary } from "jminor";

const dictionary = createDictionary();
```

`createDictionary()` is a factory function that receive a key generator factory.  
A key generator is a module that generates dictionary keys.

**`createDictionary(keyGeneratorFactory)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| keyGeneratorFactory | [`() => IKeyGenerator`](src/generators/IKeyGenerator.ts) | false | [`createDefaultKeyGenerator`](src/generators/defaultKeyGenerator.ts) | [See below]() |

#### Dictionary API

**`dictionary.replaceKeyGenerator(keyGenerator)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| keyGenerator | [`IKeyGenerator`](src/generators/IKeyGenerator.ts) | true | - | - |

- replaces the current key generator.  
***Note!*** that this will reset the dictionary.

**`dictionary.fromJSON(data)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| data | JSON | true | - | - |

- This method will digest the json object passed to it, and generates a uniqe key for each property for later translation

**`dictionary.extendWith(data)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| data | JSON | true | - | - |

- After dictionary is craeted and generated, you can pass another object to extend the dictionary that was created with the `fromJSON` method.

**`dictionary.export()`**

- Returns the generated dictionary as a raw object.

**`dictionary.import(rawDictionary)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| rawDictionary | JSON | true | - | exported raw dictionary |

- If you have exported dictionary received from the `export` method, you can import it.

**`dictionary.ktoc(key)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| key | String | true | - | - |

- Translates original key to generated key, if it exist in the dictionary.

**`dictionary.ctok(ckey)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| ckey | String | true | - | - |

- Translates generated key to original key, if it exist in the dictionary.
</details>


<details>
<summary><b>Compress</b></summary>

After we have our dictionary with the generated keys, we can go and compress some data.

```javascript
import { compress } from "jminor";

const compressed = compress(data, dictionary, config);
```

**`compress(data, dictionary, config)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| data | JSON | true | - | A JSON with keys that presented in the dictionary |
| dictionary | Dictionary | true | - | - |
| config | [`ICompressConfig`](src/minifier/ICompressConfig.ts) | false | See below | - |

#### Config and defaults
```javascript
{
    // Translate object keys
    // Default: true
    translateKeys: true,

    null: {

        // Remove null values (null)
        // Default: false
        removeNull: false,

        // If removeNull is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    boolean: {

        // Remove false values (false)
        // Default: false
        removeFalse: false,

        // If removeFalse is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    string: {

        // Remove empty strings ("")
        // Default: false
        removeEmpty: false,

        // If removeEmpty is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    number: {

        // Remove zero values (0)
        // Default: false
        removeZero: false,

        // If removeZero is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    object: {

        // Remove empty objects ({})
        // Default: false
        removeEmpty: false,

        // If removeEmpty is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    },

    array: {

        // Remove empty arrays ([])
        // Default: false
        removeEmpty: false,

        // If removeEmpty is true, exclude this keys
        // Default: []
        exclude: []
    }
}
```

***Note!*** All config keys are optionals
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Decompress</b></summary>

After compressing some data we can decompres it.  
***Note!*** that some data may be truncated based on your compress config.

```javascript
import { decompress } from "jminor";

const data = decompress(compressed, dictionary);
```

**`decompress(compressed, dictionary)`**

| Name | Type | Required | Default | Description |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| compressed | JSON | true | - | A JSON with keys that presented in the dictionary |
| dictionary | Dictionary | true | - | - |
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Generators</b></summary>

### JMinor comes with two built in key generators:
- `DefaultKeyGenerator` - generates keys in the form of `aaa`, `aab`, `zxc` etc.  

- `NumericKeyGenerator` - generates keys in the form of a numeric ascending series.

You can create your own key generator, if you will, you should implement the [`IKeyGenerator`](src/generators/IKeyGenerator.ts) interface.

See the `generators/` folder for source example
</details>

## Examples

Check out `example/` folder for usage examples

## Reporting Issues

We use GitHub Issues as the official bug tracker for JMinor. Here are some advices for our users that want to report an issue:

1. Make sure that you are using the latest version of JMinor. The issue that you are about to report may be already fixed in the latest master branch version: https://github.com/uditalias/jminor/tree/master.
2. Providing us reproducible steps for the issue will shorten the time it takes for it to be fixed. A JSFiddle is always welcomed, and you can start from this [basic one](https://jsfiddle.net/udidu/7x38s4gb/1).
3. Some issues may be browser specific, so specifying in what browser you encountered the issue might help.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
